one of the reasons why we're concerned
about white nose syndrome is up in New
York and Vermont Massachusetts thousands
of bats have been dying and the only
symptom we seem to find on these bats is
this little bit of white fungus which
can be seen right on the tip of their
nose and other than that that seemed to
be rather lethargic and seem to be
moving from their typical ruse towards
the entrance and then about mid winter
they seem to be flying out of the
hibernacula which is the place where
they spend the winter sleeping and they
just fly out into the middle the winner
and die so what we're doing here we're
trying to figure out what's going on
with the best that would cause them to
change their behavioral patterns from
hibernating deep inside of mine to
moving up towards the front end here
into the daylight its own and then
eventually emerging to to fly out so one
of the things we notice about some of
these bats is that they don't always
have fungus on the nose if we take a
look at this bet we can see that it
doesn't have fungus on its face yet we
can see fungus all over the tail and the
wind membranes here and if we fold this
wing out just slightly you can see a
little bit of white powdery fungus all
over it and we don't know if this fungus
is actually causing these bags to die we
just know that the fungus is a visual
symptom that is seen by us and the bats
eventually are staging towards the front
and then flying out of the site and we
presume to die at that point
you